Bible translations in common languages started to spread across Europe in the 1500s, but it
took much longer for more remote places to receive the Bible.
It was in 1766 that the complete Greek scriptures or New Testament was first published in Green
Landek, a language spoken today by about 50,000 people.
In August of last year, I had the privilege of serving a regional convention in Greenland,
which is overseen by the Scandinavia branch.
Greenland is the neighbor to the north of Newfoundland, where I pioneered for 11 years, so it
was a wonderful experience to go there and meet our brothers.
Some 400 brothers and sisters traveled at their own expense from all over Scandinavia
to support the convention in Greenland.
Although Greenland is a land covered by large ice caps, there are many warm hearts yearning
for the truth.
I think that Jesus had Greenland in mind when he spoke about preaching to the most distant
part of the earth.
My name is Arna Matson.
My wife Karen and I have lived in Greenland for more than 34 years.
We have traveled all over the country preaching about God Kingdom, and we have had some fantastic
experiences.
In the 1950s, two young special pioneers came to Greenland as the first publishers.
They traveled by boat from town to town, carrying just tents and simple equipment.
They had to endure the cold weather, face resistance from the local ministers, and even
fight with sledge dogs that took their food.
But they laid the groundwork for the great effort that has been made to preach to all
in this country.
In the 1960s and 70s, many families moved here from Denmark to help with the preaching
work.
I remember how I as a teenager in 1971 moved from Denmark to Greenland with my family.
It was not easy to learn the language, but the brothers and sisters from Denmark did
their best, and it had a good effect on the territory.
In 1973, the watchtower began to be published in Greenlandic.
Just to pronounce the name, Nabazoliak, Alabama, Suifik, was a challenge.
But it has been a popular magazine in Greenland ever since.
Once we met a couple who for many years had received copies of the watchtower when
publishers visited their settlement.
They told us that they often felt depressed when they woke up in the morning.
But when they read the magazine, they felt better, and they would read the same copies
over and over again.
When the temperature drops and the snow falls, the landscape gets covered by a beautiful
white blanket for half a year.
So the publishers make good use of the summer.
Some towns and settlements only seldom receive a witness.
There are no roads between the towns, but we reach isolated areas by boat.
When someone shows interest in our message, the contact is maintained by phone.
Many have great respect for the Bible, and so my book of Bible stories has found its way
into many, many homes.
Over a period of 24 years, Karen and I have sailed so much that it equals a trip trice
around the globe.
This has cost a lot of effort and money, but with your hovers blessing, we have been able
to continue year after year, preaching to the distant parts of Greenland.
The preaching work here is a great experience.
People are attentive and kind, but it took a long time before the first native Greenland
that was baptized, actually 18 years of zealous preaching.
Today there are more than 150 publishers in five congregations.
Jehovah has really blessed the work that has been done here for more than 60 years.
In August 2016, a very special convention was held in the capital of Munich.
Brothers and sisters from all over Scandinavia traveled all the way to attend the convention.
We were very encouraged by the visit of a member of the governing body, Brother Marc Sanderson,
who gave us some faith-strengthening talks.
I think it's a great privilege to be able to understand the truth.
It's amazing that Jehovah gave his attention to an insignificant human like me.
When I started to follow the Bible's unique teachings and principles, I clearly understood
how it would benefit my own life.
After this convention, even though we live in small towns far away from the rest of the world,
we feel closer than ever before to the worldwide brotherhood.
The peak attendance at the convention was 614, the largest ever in Greenland.
Our brothers from other parts of Scandinavia who attended the convention
also took part in a campaign inviting interested ones.
In only two hours, the whole capital city of Nook was covered.
It was a wonderful witness.